# PX1097
This document describes the PX1097 diagnostic.

## Summary

| Code   | Short Description                                                         | Type  | Code Fix    | 
| ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----- | ----------- | 
| PX1097 | Methods with the `PXOverride` attribute must be `public` and non-virtual. | Error | Available   | 

## Diagnostic Description
A method with the `PXOverride` attribute must be declared as `public` and must not be `virtual`, `abstract`, or `override`:
- Methods with the `PXOverride` attribute must be declared with the `public` accessibility due to the requirements of Acumatica Framework. Currently, Acumatica Framework supports only public methods with the `PXOverride` attribute.
- Methods with the `PXOverride` attribute must be non-virtual. Such methods cannot have `virtual`, `abstract`, or `override` modifiers. Acumatica Framework does not support combination of the `PXOverride` mechanism with regular C# overrides.

## Further Constraints of Methods with the PXOverride Attribute
* The overriding method must be declared in a graph extension.
* The overriding method should not be `static`.
* The overriding method cannot be a generic method.
* The overriding method should always declare an additional delegate parameter.
* The overriding method should declare an XML documentation comment with a reference to the base method in the format `/// Overrides <seealso cref="{Base method}">`.
* The signature of the overriding method must be compatible with the signature of the overridden base method. The names of the derived method and the base method must match.
* The base method must be `virtual` (have either `virtual` or `override` modifiers).
* The base method must have one of the following accessibility levels: `public`, `protected`, or `protected internal`.

## Code Fix
The code fix for the PX1097 diagnostic changes the accessibility of the method with the `PXOverride` attribute to `public` and removes any `virtual` modifiers from the method declaration.
The code fix cannot be applied to methods with the `override` modifier, because such change would break the compatibility of the method with the base method it overrides. In this case, the code fix is not available.

The code fix can change the accessibility of the `abstract` method with the `PXOverride` attribute to `public` but it cannot make such method non-virtual.
Such change would introduce a compilation error since only abstract methods can be declared without a body.

## Example of Correct Code
The following example demonstrates the correct declaration of the `PXOverride` method.
```cs
public class MyGraph : PXGraph<MyGraph>
{
}

public class BaseGraphExtension : PXGraphExtension<MyGraph>
{
	public virtual int Add(int x, string y)
	{
		return x + Convert.ToInt32(y);
	}
}

public class DerivedGraphExtension : PXGraphExtension<BaseGraphExtension, MyGraph>
{
	/// Overrides <seealso cref="BaseGraphExtension.Add(int, string)"/>
	[PXOverride]
	public int Add(int x, string y, Func<int, string, int> base_Add)
	{
		if (x < 10)
		{
			return x + Convert.ToInt32(y) * 2;
		}
		return base_Add(x, y);
	}
}
```

## Example of Incorrect Code
In the following example, `PXOverride` methods are either declared as `virtual` or do not have the `public` accessibility.
```cs
public class MyGraph : PXGraph<MyGraph>
{
	protected virtual void UpdateBalances()
	{
		// Implementation
	}
}

public class BaseGraphExtension : PXGraphExtension<MyGraph>
{
	public virtual int Add(int x, string y)
	{
		return x + Convert.ToInt32(y);
	}
}

public class DerivedGraphExtension : PXGraphExtension<BaseGraphExtension, MyGraph>
{
	/// Overrides <seealso cref="BaseGraphExtension.Add(int, string)"/>
	[PXOverride]
	public virtual int Add(int x, string y, Func<int, string, int> base_Add)
	{
		if (x < 10)
		{
			return x + Convert.ToInt32(y) * 2;
		}

		return base_Add(x, y);
	}

	/// Overrides <seealso cref="MyGraph.UpdateBalances()"/>
	[PXOverride]
	protected void UpdateBalances()
	{
		// Implementation
	}
}
```

## Related Articles
- [To Override a Virtual Method](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=6fa2a444-17b4-42f9-9e6a-64e85167626a)
- [Override of a Method](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=635c830e-4617-4d5c-9fa5-035952311aa9)
- [PXOverrideAttribute](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=cdc4f1df-a4cc-5de5-a379-5078ad449965)