# PX1003
This document describes the PX1003 diagnostic.

## Summary

| Code   | Short Description                                                                                        |  Type   | Code Fix  |
| ------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | --------- |
| PX1003 | An instance of the base graph type should be created with the `PXGraph.CreateInstance()` factory method. | Warning | Available |

## Diagnostic Description
The PX1003 diagnostic reports graph instances of the base `PXGraph` type that are instantiated directly with a graph constructor (for example, `new PXGraph()`). The `PXGraph.CreateInstance<T>()` factory method should be used 
instead to instantiate correctly initialized graph instances from code.

This diagnostic has a complementary rule, [PX1001](PX1001.md), which reports direct constructor calls for concrete graph types derived from the `PXGraph` type (for example, `new SOOrderEntry()`). Both diagnostics share similar reasoning, 
but they have different severity levels.

### Difference between Graph Constructor Calls and PXGraph.CreateInstance Factory Method
During the execution of the `PXGraph.CreateInstance` factory method, the Acumatica Framework performs a complex initialization of the graph instance, including the following steps:
 - Collection and initialization of graph extensions
 - Dependency injection of services into a graph
 - Loading and unloading of the graph state from the session

These steps are omitted when the graph instance is created via a direct constructor call. 

The sections below describe some of the steps that are performed during the graph initialization.

#### Graph Extensions 
The Acumatica Framework relies on a complex extension mechanism to provide customization capabilities. Proper initialization of graph instances is essential for this mechanism to function correctly.
Such initialization is implemented in the `PXGraph.CreateInstance()` factory method via the dynamic generation of a proxy class that derives from the original graph type and integrates all graph extensions 
into the original graph's logic. Among extension mechanisms that rely on this dynamic code generation are:
- The `PXOverride` attribute mechanism
- The `PXProtectedAccess` attribute mechanism
- The overrides of event handlers

Graph constructors will only create instances of the original graph type without any graph extensions loaded for it. This can lead to incorrect and unexpected behavior at runtime.

#### Dependency Injection
The Acumatica Framework provides its own Dependency Injection (DI) mechanism to inject different services into the graph instance via the property injection pattern. The `PXGraph.CreateInstance()` factory method ensures that 
all DI services are correctly injected into the graph instance, while direct constructor calls bypass this mechanism. This means that graphs created via constructors may lack necessary DI services, leading to runtime errors.

### Why Warning Severity for Base `PXGraph` Type
The Acumatica Framework contains graph extensions created for the base `PXGraph` type. These extensions are applied to **all** graphs derived from the `PXGraph` type (essentially every graph in the system). The Acumatica Framework also includes DI services that are injected into the base `PXGraph` type and expected to be available in all derived graphs. This means that even the instance of the base `PXGraph` type should be properly initialized to ensure that these extensions and DI services are available.

If you create an instance of the base `PXGraph` type directly, the initialization of these extensions and DI services will not be performed, which can lead to unexpected behavior. If you need a general graph instance with all initialized extensions 
and DI services, you can create it by using the following code.
```C#
var generalGraphWithAllExtensionsAndDiServices = PXGraph.CreateInstance<PXGraph>();
```

However, the business logic rarely uses `PXGraph` instances. Instead, it uses concrete graph types that are derived from `PXGraph`. Therefore, the direct instantiation of the base `PXGraph` type is a less critical issue compared to concrete graph types.
It is acceptable to instantiate the base `PXGraph` directly in a single use case scenario: When you need to query data directly from the database. This scenario is described in detail below.

Because of these reasons, the PX1003 diagnostic has the **Warning** severity instead of **Error** unlike the PX1001 diagnostic.

#### Lightweight Data Querying
It is acceptable to directly instantiate the base `PXGraph` type in the following scenario: When you use the base `PXGraph` instance created via a direct constructor call **only** to query data from the database (for example, for some service). Sometimes, Acumatica developers use such "cheaper," not fully initialized graph instances just to retrieve data. In this case, the full graph initialization via `CreateInstance` is an unnecessary expensive operation, and developers use a cheaper alternative.

**If you need to create a lightweight `PXGraph` instance via direct constructor call for data querying, you should just suppress the PX1003 warning on the constructor call with Acuminator suppression comment.**
Acuminator is aware of this scenario and will even generate a default justification for such suppressions in this case.

## Code Fix Behavior
The code fix replaces the direct call to the `PXGraph` constructor with the call to the `PXGraph.CreateInstance<PXGraph>()` factory method.

## Example of Incorrect Code
```C#
// Warning: Constructor call for the base PXGraph type
var graph = new PXGraph();
```

## Example of Code Fix
```C#
// Correct: Use CreateInstance for the base PXGraph type
var graph = PXGraph.CreateInstance<PXGraph>();
```

## Related Articles

- [PX1001 Diagnostic](PX1001.md)
- [Business Logic Customization](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=b02bd27f-3e86-4210-9e0f-c0df7aa701d9)
- [Graph Extensions: General Information](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=e220486e-32d1-439b-a858-7c10f44a9bac)
