# PX1008
This document describes the PX1008 diagnostic.

## Summary

| Code   | Short Description                                                                                                                                           | Type  | Code Fix    | 
| ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----- | ----------- | 
| PX1008 | The reference to the screen graph or an action adapter in the long-running operation and processing delegates causes synchronous execution of the delegate. | Error | Unavailable | 

## Diagnostic Description
The delegates passed to the `PXLongOperation`, `ILongOperationManager`, and `IGraphLongOperationManager` APIs that start long-running operations should not contain references to the screen graph or an action adapter of the `PXAdapter` type
from the graph action delegate's parameters because such references cause synchronous execution of the long-running operation. Long-running operations are started by the following APIs:
- The `PXLongOperation.StartOperation` methods
- The `ILongOperationManager.StartOperation`, `ILongOperationManager.StartAsyncOperation`, and `ILongOperationManager.Await` methods
- The `IGraphLongOperationManager.StartOperation` and `IGraphLongOperationManager.StartAsyncOperation` methods

The same rule applies to the delegates passed to the `SetProcessDelegate` and `SetAsyncProcessDelegate` methods of the `PXProcessingBase<Table>` class and its inheritors. Such classes represent processing graph views in Acumatica Framework.
These delegates are called processing delegates and they should not contain references to the screen graph or an action `PXAdapter` adapter from parameters of the graph action delegate in the delegate closure.

The PX1008 diagnostic validates delegates passed to the methods listed above and finds references to an instance of a screen graph and action adapters captured by the delegate closures.

The diagnostic uses data flow analysis that considers the passed data. This allows the diagnostic to check the parameters passed to other graph and helper methods. 
For example, if a developer passes a screen graph or an action adapter as an argument to a method and invokes in this method a long-running operation that uses the passed arguments, this diagnostic captures such code. 
Corner cases not captured by the data flow analysis exist because live diagnostics have to limit resource usage and some things cannot be checked at compile time. But in our practice, these cases are rarely encountered in the production code.  

To fix the issue, you rewrite the delegate so that it does not contain references to the screen graph or the action adapter.

## Example of Code That Results in the Warning

```C#
public class SomeGraph : PXGraph<SomeGraph>
{
	public PXFilteredProcessing<SomeDAC> Processing;
  
	public SomeGraph()
	{
		Processing.SetProcessDelegate(item => this.Process(item)); // The PX1008 error is displayed for this line.
	}
  
	private Process(SomeDAC item) { }
}
```

## Example of the Data Flow Analysis That Captures Helper Methods

Suppose that a helper class contains the following methods:
 - `CaptureInLongRun` which initiates a long-running operation with a graph instance in the delegate
 - `CaptureInLongRunArray` which initiates a long-running operation that captures the array of objects passed to it in the delegate
 
The diagnostic will show a warning, as shown in the following code.

```C#
public IEnumerable someAction(PXAdapter adapter)
{
	var helper = new NonGraph();
	helper.CaptureInLongRun(this);                      // The PX1008 error is displayed for this line.
	helper.CaptureInLongRunArray(new[] { adapter });    // The PX1008 error is displayed for this line.

	return adapter.Get();
}
```

### Principles of the Data Flow Analysis
The following section describes the principles of the data flow analysis used by the analyzer of the PX1008 diagnostic.
The analyzer maintains a stack of non-capturable elements. Before the analyzer visits a method from a method call recursively, the analyzer calculates the entity that can capture a reference to a graph or an adapter at the call site. 
The diagnostic supports the following situations:
  - When the analyzer is at the top of the call stack and inside an action handler. In this case, the adapter parameter can be captured.
  - When the analyzer is inside a graph or a graph extension and `this` is passed among the arguments.
  - When the analyzer is inside a recursive call and already has some non-capturable parameters that are used in call arguments.
  - When the analyzer is inside a local method and parameters from containing methods have some non-capturable elements.

Additional analysis performs the following checks:
  - Checks for parameters and `this` captured in arguments expression
  - Checks for reassignments of parameters before the call site 

## Related Articles

- [Asynchronous Operations: General Information](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=ed8c7ee9-3abb-4406-8e57-274e5d2aacaa)
- [Asynchronous Operations: How They are Handled in Acumatica ERP](https://help.acumatica.com/Wiki/ShowWiki.aspx?pageid=97e2b9b6-4e6b-4816-a08a-9d13fb38a90e)
- [PXLongOperation](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=b70e1da2-0376-e933-47c6-45ad18291e6c)
- [ILongOperationManager](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=ddd29f07-a167-f6ca-e6da-abc59121863d)
- [IGraphLongOperationManager](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=5b50498f-8e28-86d0-65d6-c06fae88e40d)