# PX1075
This document describes the PX1075 diagnostic.

## Summary

| Code   | Short Description                                                                                                                                                    |              Type              | Code Fix    | 
| ------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | ----------- | 
| PX1075 | `PXCache.RaiseExceptionHandling` cannot be invoked from the `FieldDefaulting`, `FieldSelecting`, `FieldUpdating`, `RowSelecting`, and `RowPersisted` event handlers. | Warning (Non-ISV) / Error (ISV) | Unavailable |

## Diagnostic Description
The `PXCache.RaiseExceptionHandling` method, which is used to prevent the saving of a record or to display an error or warning on the form, cannot be invoked on a `PXCache` instance for some event handlers.

The `PXCache.RaiseExceptionHandling` method usually is invoked in the following event handlers:
 - `RowPersisting` to prevent saving of a record.
 - `RowSelected` to display an error or a warning on the form.

To prevent the diagnostic from showing an error, you should remove the code that invokes `PXCache.RaiseExceptionHandling` and rework the related business logic.

When **Enable additional diagnostics for ISV Solution Certification** Acuminator option (in **Tools > Options > Acuminator > Code Analysis**) is set to `True`, 
the PX1073 diagnostic will be displayed as an error for the following event handlers:
 - `FieldDefaulting`: This event handler works with a record that has not yet been added to `PXCache` or a record whose field is changed in the code. Neither situation involves the display of errors or warning for a record.
 - `FieldSelecting`: This event handler is used to configure a UI control of a field. The invocation of `PXCache.RaiseExceptionHandling` in this event handler has no effect.
 - `FieldUpdating`: This event handler is used to transform external value representation from the UI or Web API into the internal value representation stored in a DAC field.
The `FieldUpdating` event is not raised in some scenarios when Acumatica assumes that value is already in an internal state and does not require transformation. Therefore, the validation logic
that calls `PXCache.RaiseExceptionHandling` won't be executed in all scenarios which can lead to an inconsistent state of the value in the DAC field. You should use `FieldUpdating` or other event handlers for validation logic.
 - `RowSelecting`: This event handler is called when the record is being read from the database. These records are not available in `PXCache` yet. Invocation of `PXCache.RaiseExceptionHandling` in this event handler has no effect.
 - `RowPersisted`: This event handler is called when the record has already been saved to the database. Therefore, it would not make sense to display any warnings for this record.

When **Enable additional diagnostics for ISV Solution Certification** Acuminator option (in **Tools > Options > Acuminator > Code Analysis**) is set to `False`, 
the PX1073 diagnostic will be displayed as a Warning for the following event handlers:
 - `FieldSelecting`: This event handler is used to configure a UI control of a field. The invocation of `PXCache.RaiseExceptionHandling` in this event handler has no effect.
 - `FieldUpdating`: This event handler is used to transform external value representation from the UI or Web API into the internal value representation stored in a DAC field.
The `FieldUpdating` event is not raised in some scenarios when Acumatica assumes that value is already in an internal state and does not require transformation. Therefore, the validation logic
that calls `PXCache.RaiseExceptionHandling` won't be executed in all scenarios which can lead to an inconsistent state of the value in the DAC field. Use `FieldUpdating` or other event handlers for validation logic.

## Example of Incorrect Code
```C#
protected virtual void SOOrder_Status_FieldSelecting(PXCache sender,
PXRowSelectingEventArgs e)
{
    SOOrder row = (SOOrder)e.Row;
    if (row.Status != "New" )
    {
        sender.RaiseExceptionHandling<SOOrder.status>( //The PX1075 error is displayed for this line.
            row, null,
            new PXSetPropertyException(
                Messages.SpecialText,
                typeof(SOOrder.status).Name));
        e.Cancel = true;
    }
}
```

## Related Articles
 - [FieldDefaulting](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=dedd464a-3e57-dda1-fb2e-4e7fe8d62dd7)
 - [FieldSelecting](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=e43e5162-c4b5-6bf8-8ff1-5c705ba73a05)
 - [FieldUpdating](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=3c049ef0-60f1-c3cd-85c5-21650654c5aa)
 - [RowSelecting](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=251735da-091e-3bc5-f805-0f570e923864)
 - [RowPersisted](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=f151b2b4-989e-072b-63a8-2b2b472b5e0d)
 - [Data Manipulation Scenarios](https://help.acumatica.com/Help?ScreenId=ShowWiki&pageid=d9cf6274-f5c8-43e7-9d13-9b423113d67e)